.TH "PACDEF.YAML" "5" "2024\-03\-20" "pacdef v1\&.4\&.2" "Pacdef Manual"

.SH NAME
pacdef.yaml \(em pacdef configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/pacdef/pacdef.yaml
.br
$HOME/.config/pacdef/pacdef.yaml
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the config file for
.BR pacdef(8).
During startup, pacdef will try to load the config file as specified in the order in synopsis.
If both $XDG_CONFIG_HOME and $HOME are unset, pacdef will exit with an error.

The necessary directories are created during first startup.
If the config file does not exist, it will be created without content, in which case the default settings apply.
See OPTIONS for a description of the possible values.
If the file contains any content that is not a valid key-value pair, pacdef will exit with an error.


.SH OPTIONS
The options together with their default values.

.TP
.B aur_helper: paru
The AUR helper to use on Arch Linux

.TP
.B aur_rm_args: []
Additional arguments to pass to the AUR helper on Arch Linux when removing a package.
Must be a list of strings.
.br
Example: [--recursive]

.TP
.B disabled_backends: []
Backends that pacdef should ignore even if the binary exists on the system.
This can reduce runtime if the package manager is notoriously slow (like pip).
.br
Example: [python, flatpak]

.TP
.B warn_not_symlinks: true
Warn if any group file is not a symlink and is not a child of a symlinked dir inside the group folder.

.TP
.B flatpak_systemwide: true
Whether flatpak packages shold be installed system-wide or per user.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pacdef(8)

